What is Network Miner ?
NetworkMiner is an open source Network Forensic Analysis Tool (NFAT) for Windows (but also works in Linux / Mac OS X / FreeBSD). NetworkMiner can be used as a passive network sniffer/packet capturing tool to detect operating systems, sessions, hostnames, open ports etc. without putting any traffic on the network. NetworkMiner can also parse PCAP files for off-line analysis and to regenerate/reassemble transmitted files and certificates from PCAP files.

NetworkMiner makes it easy to perform advanced Network Traffic Analysis (NTA) by providing extracted artefacts in an intuitive user interface. The way data is presented not only makes the analysis simpler, it also saves valuable time for the analyst or forensic investigator.

Network Miner Features 
Capability	Description

Traffic sniffing -- >It can intercept the traffic, sniff it, and collect and log packets that pass through the network.
Parsing PCAP files-->It can parse pcap files and show the content of the packets in detail.
Protocol analysis -->	It can identify the used protocols from the parsed pcap file.
OS fingerprinting-->It can identify the used OS by reading the pcap file. This feature strongly relies on Satori and p0f.
 File Extraction-->	It can extract images, HTML files and emails from the parsed pcap file.
Credential grabbing-->It can extract credentials from the parsed pcap file.
Clear text keyword parsing-->It can extract cleartext keywords and strings from the parsed pcap file.

Network miner modes :
   1- Sniffer mode 
   2- packer pasing mode 
   
Pros and Cons
 

As mentioned in the previous task, NetworkMiner is mainly used to gain an overview of the network. Before starting to investigate traffic data, let's look at the pros and cons of the NetworkMiner.

 

Pros

    OS fingerprinting
    Easy file extraction
    Credential grabbing
    Clear text keyword parsing
    Overall overview

Cons


    Not useful in active sniffing
    Not useful for large pcap investigation
    Limited filtering
    Not built for manual traffic investigation
    
    
